// Status: edited

////
Questions:
 Should be short one-liners (in the .adoc file) ending with ?::
 If your question is too long for one line, consider multiple questions or rephrase.

Answers:
 Can be bullets or paragraphs. Bullets make for easier reading.

Bullet Usage:
 *  = a circle bullet single intent
 ** = circle bullet double indent
 .  = should be avoided as the questions are numbered
 .. = bullet a, b, c, and so on, double indent

Alternatives: Use a * Bullet, followed by .. for example, then have
a multi-section answer using the * as the section header
 
 * Section Header 1
 .. Possible Answer a
 .. Possible Answer b
 * Section Header 2
 .. Possible Answer a
 .. Possible Answer b
 
Link Usage:
 Use the common/links.adoc for href links to maintain consistency. Try to avoid
 apostrophes ` or ' as it breaks AsciiDoc syntax without special escaping 
 and they do not translate into other languages well.

////
[qanda]
My displayed spectrum is flatter when I do not check the *Flatten* box. What's wrong?::

_WSJT-X_ does not expect a steep filter edge within the displayed
passband. Use a wider IF filter or reduce the displayed passband by
decreasing *Bins/Pixel*, increasing *Start*, or reducing the width of
the *Wide Graph*.  You might also choose to re-center the filter
passband, if such control is available.

How should I configure _WSJT-X_ to run multiple instances?::

Start _WSJT-X_ from a command-prompt window, assigning each a unique
identifier as in the following two-instance example.  This procedure
will isolate the *Settings* file and the writable file location for
each instance of _WSJT-X_.

 wsjtx --rig-name=TS590
 wsjtx --rig-name=FT847

I am getting a "Network Error - SSL/TLS support not installed" message. What should I do?::

You need to install suitable _OpenSSL_ libraries - see <<OPENSSL,Instructions to install _OpenSSL_>>.

I occasionally get Rig Control Errors if I adjust my Icom rig's VFO. What's wrong?::

By default, most Icom transceivers have *CI-V Transceive Mode" enabled. This will cause unsolicited CAT traffic from the rig that disrupts CAT
control by a PC. Disable this option in the rig's menu.

I want to control my transceiver with another application as well as _WSJT-X_, is that possible?::

This only possible to do reliably via some kind of rig control server.
That server must be able to accept both _WSJT-X_ and the other
application(s) as clients. Using a dumb serial port splitter like the
VSPE tool is not supported; it may work but it is not reliable due to
unmanaged CAT control collisions. Applications like the _Hamlib Rig
Control Server (rigctld)_, _{omnirig}_, and _{dxlsuite} Commander_ are
potentially suitable; _WSJT-X_ can act as a client to them all.

Rig control through _OmniRig_ seems to fail when I click *Test CAT*. What can I do about it?::

_Omni-Rig_ apparently has a bug that appears when you click *Test
CAT*.  Forget using *Test CAT* and just click *OK*.  _Omni-Rig_ then
behaves normally.

I am running _WSJT-X_ under Ubuntu.  The program starts, but the menu bar is missing from the top of the main window and the hot-keys don't work.::

Ubuntu's new "`Unity`" desktop puts the menu for the currently active
window at the top of the primary display screen.  You can restore menu
bars to their traditional locations by typing the following in a
command-prompt window:

 sudo apt remove appmenu-qt5

+
Alternatively, you can disable the common menu bar for just _WSJT-X_
by starting the application with the environment variable
QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME set to empty (the space after the '=' character
is necessary):

 QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME= wsjtx

I am running _WSJT-X_ on Linux using a KDE desktop. Why does *Menu->Configurations* misbehave?::

The  KDE  development  team  have  added code  to  Qt  that  tries  to
automatically add  shortcut accelerator keys to  all buttons including
pop up menu buttons. This interferes with operation of the application
(many other Qt applications have  similar issues with KDE). Until this
is fixed  by the KDE team  you must disable this  feature. Edit the
file `~/.config/kdeglobals` and add a section containing the following:

 [Development]
 AutoCheckAccelerators=false

+
See https://stackoverflow.com/a/32711483 and
https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=337491 for more details.
