=== Documentation Conventions

We include screen shots that illustrate many of the settings and
features of _WSJT-X_.  Keep in mind that _WSJT-X_ is a multi-platform
application: the detailed appearance of windows and user controls may
be significantly different in Windows, Linux, or macOS environments.
The underlying functionality is the same on all operating systems,
however.  Where desirable we call special attention to important
platform differences.

In this manual the following icons call attention to particular types
of information:

NOTE: *Notes* containing information that may be of interest to
particular classes of users.

TIP: *Tips* on program features or capabilities that might otherwise be
overlooked.

IMPORTANT: *Warnings* about usage that could lead to undesired
consequences.

=== User Interface in Other Languages

The _WSJT-X_ user interface (UI) is now available in many languages.
When a translated UI is available for the computer's default System
Language, it will appear automatically on program startup. The UI
language may be overriden if desired by starting _WSJT-X_ with a
command line option.

=== How You Can Contribute

_WSJT-X_ is part of an open-source project released under the
{gnu_gpl} (GPLv3). If you have programming or documentation skills or
would like to contribute to the project in other ways, please make
your interests known to the development team.  We especially encourage
those with translation skills to volunteer their help, either for
this _User Guide_ or for the program's user interface.

The project's source-code repository can be found at {devrepo}, and
communication among the developers takes place on the email reflector
{devmail}.  Bug reports and suggestions for new features, improvements
to the _WSJT-X_ User Guide, etc., may be sent there as well.  You must
join the group before posting to the email list.


=== License

Before using _WSJT-X_, please read our licensing terms
<<LICENSE,here>>.
